Building a Healthy Urban Design Index (HUDI): how to
promote health and sustainability in European cities
Federica Montana*, Natalie Mueller, Evelise Pereira Barboza, Sasha Khomenko, Tamara Iungman, Marta Cirach, Carolyn Daher, TC Chakraborty,
Kees de Hoogh, Alice Battiston, Rossano Schifanella, Mark Nieuwenhuijsen
Summary
Background As global urbanisation accelerates, alongside declining environmental quality and increasing climate
challenges, it is increasingly vital for urban planners and policy makers to integrate health and wellbeing considerations
into urban planning. This study introduces the Healthy Urban Design Index (HUDI), a high-resolution spatial index
developed for European cities. HUDI combines policy-relevant indicators related to urban design, sustainable
transportation, environmental quality, and greenspace accessibility—key factors influencing human health and well-
being. Unlike existing indices, which often focus on few or large metropolitan cities and lack spatial granularity,
HUDI offers high resolution and extends its scope to small-sized and medium-sized cities, home to over 50% of
Europe’s population.
Methods We analysed 917 European cities in total, 916 cities and one larger city, on the basis of the 2018 Urban Audit
database. Using open-source spatial data, we mapped cities at a fine 250 m grid cell scale. To compare cities effectively,
we grouped them into five city clusters on the basis of population size, following the definition of the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development: large metropolitan (11), metropolitan (53), medium-sized (177) and small
(638) cities, and small towns (38). A set of 13 indicators, across four overarching domains of urban design, sustainable
transportation, environmental quality, and green space accessibility was calculated spatially at the 250 m grid cell
scale and then aggregated to the city level. The 13 indicators were optimal dwelling density, compactness, mid-rise
development, permeability, opportunity to walk, opportunity to cycle, public transport stops, air quality (PM2·5 and
NO2), surrounding greenness (Normalized Difference Vegetation Index), lower urban heat islands, universal access to
green spaces, and access to large green spaces. To ensure comparability, all indicators were standardised on a scale
from 0 to 10, considering data quality, indicator target levels, and specific evaluation criteria. The HUDI was then
calculated by applying different weights to these indicators, allowing us to rank cities within their respective city size
cluster. We visualised overall city performance using spider plots and did Local Moran’s I and Local Indicators of
Spatial Association analyses to pinpoint areas with poor urban planning. We did sensitivity tests and correlation
analyses, incorporating external datasets where available, to validate our findings.
Findings HUDI scores ranged from 2·9 to nearly 7 of 10, showing that there is still room for improvement in creating
healthier urban environments across European cities. Larger metropolitan cities, particularly in northern Europe and
parts of Spain, tended to score well in the urban design and sustainable transportation domains. In contrast, medium
and smaller-sized cities did better in the environmental quality domain. However, smaller cities often struggled with
the green space accessibility domain, as fewer parks and green spaces were accessible via walking or cycling, despite
having plenty of surrounding greenery. A clear east–west divide exists, with cities in Western Europe, such as those in
the UK, Spain, and Sweden, achieving the highest HUDI scores, whereas eastern European cities, particularly in
Romania, Bulgaria, and Poland, scored lower. These findings highlight how city size and regional factors shape urban
sustainability and public health outcomes.
Interpretation The HUDI is a large-scale, high-resolution, open-data tool that measures key urban health factors
across nearly 1000 European cities of different sizes. As an open-source resource, HUDI provides valuable, data-
driven insights to help cities identify strengths, weaknesses, and urban management areas needing improvement. By
offering clear, measurable indicators, it helps policy makers and urban planners pinpoint problem areas and make
informed decisions to improve public health and sustainability. HUDI is a dynamic tool, not a definitive ranking. By
clustering cities by size, it enables comparisons, knowledge, and best practice sharing. Further research is needed to
refine HUDI and expand its indicators and cities as better data become available. A key strength of HUDI is its ability
to highlight data gaps and encourage better data collection. We call on researchers and urban planners to support
HUDI development by sharing data and code on GitHub and Zenodo, helping track urban health and sustainability
progress more effectively.
Funding The Spanish Ministry of Science and Innovation, Generalitat de Catalunya, Centro de Investigación Biomédica
en red Epidemiología y Salud Pública, Urban Burden of Disease Estimation for Policy Making Horizon Europe project,
Barcelona Institute for Global Health, University of Turin, ISI Foundation, and US Department of Energy.
www.thelancet.com/planetary-health Vol 9 June 2025
Articles
Lancet Planet Health 2025;
9: e511–26
*First author
Institute for Global Health,
Barcelona, Spain
(F Montana PhD, N Mueller PhD,
E Pereira Barboza PhD,
S KhomenkO PhD,
T Iungman PhD, M Cirach MSc,
C Daher MPH,
Prof M Nieuwenhuijsen PhD);
Department of Experimental
and Health Sciences,
Universitat Pompeu Fabra,
Barcelona, Spain (F Montana,
N Mueller, E Pereira Barboza,
S Khomenko, T Iungman,
M Cirach, C Daher,
Prof M Nieuwenhuijsen); CIBER
Epidemiología y Salud Pública,
Madrid, Spain (F Montana,
N Mueller, E Pereira Barboza,
S Khomenko, T Iungman,
M Cirach, C Daher,
Prof M Nieuwenhuijsen);
Atmospheric, Climate, and
Earth Sciences Division, Pacific
Northwest National
Laboratory, Richland, WA, USA
(TC Chakraborty PhD); Swiss
Tropical and Public Health
Institute, Basel, Switzerland
(K de Hoogh PhD); University of
Basel, Basel, Switzerland
(K de Hoogh); Computer Science
Department, University of
Turin, Turin, Italy
(A Battiston PhD,
R Schifanella PhD); ISI
Foundation, Turin, Italy
(R Schifanella)
Correspondence to:
Prof Mark Nieuwenhuijsen,
Institute for Global Health,
08003 Barcelona, Spain
mark.nieuwenhuijsen@
isglobal.org
e511
Articles
Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open Access article under the CC BY-NC-ND
4.0 license.
For more on C40 Healthy
Neighborhood Explorer see
https://healthyneighbourhood.
c40.org
Introduction
Over half the global population lives in cities, with
Europe reaching almost 75%.1 Urban living offers
access to services, jobs, and culture but also poses
challenges such as traffic, pollution, heat, and lack of
green space, which affect health.2,3 Integrating public
health into city planning can mitigate these issues and
foster sustainable, healthy urban development.4
Governments worldwide are increasingly putting
sustainability, liveability, and health on their agendas,
as also called for in the UN Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs), particularly SDG 11,5 and the New Urban
Agenda.6 European initiatives such as the Green City
Accord,7 European Green Capital Award,8 and Mission
Cities9 promote community-driven, climate-resilient,
and health-enhancing approaches to urban and
transport planning. However, many cities struggle
with localising policies, implementation, and tracking
progress.
Existing urban indices assess health but often focus on
few or large metropolitan cities and lack spatial
granularity.10–17 Although tools such as the Urban11 and
Global Livability Index,15 the Human Development
Index,16 the C40 Healthy Neighborhood Explorer, or the
Urban Environment and Social Inclusion Index12 provide
valuable insights, they do not capture local disparities,
especially in medium and small-sized cities, where
over 50% of Europe’s urban population resides.18
Research in context
Evidence before this study
To build a strong evidence base for the Healthy Urban Design
Index (HUDI), we reviewed urban health studies from the past
20 years (January, 2003–January, 2023) using the PubMed
database. Our search focused on the links between urban form,
transport, environment, and health, identifying large-scale
studies that analysed multiple European cities. Our search terms
were ‘urbanisation’ OR ‘urban typology’ OR ‘urban type’ OR
‘urban studies’ OR ‘urban environment’ OR ‘built environment’
OR ‘urban morphology’ OR ‘urban configuration’ OR ‘urban
form’ OR ‘urban areas’ OR ‘cities’ OR ‘sprawl’ OR ‘urban planning’
OR ‘urban development’ OR ‘urban design’ OR ‘urban factors’ OR
‘urban features’ OR ‘urban characteristics’ OR ‘urban density’ OR
‘urban land use’ OR ‘urban land cover’ AND “indicator” OR
“indicators” OR “index”. After expert consultation, we narrowed
down 94 initial studies to seven key studies and three relevant
tools. These studies developed indicators for sustainable
mobility, environmental quality, social infrastructure, housing,
and services, ranking cities by economy, environment, society,
and culture. They also assessed liveability, equity, and inclusion.
However, existing indexes were often limited to few, particularly
large metropolitan cities, relied often on local data, or lacked fine
spatial detail. No study covered many cities (>200) of different
sizes by use of only open data with high spatial resolution, which
highlights the unique value of HUDI.
Added value of this study
To our knowledge, this is the first study to develop a granular,
open data-driven tool that integrates urban design,
transportation, environmental quality, green space accessibility,
and health considerations across nearly 1000 European cities of
varying sizes. Use of open-source data at a high spatial
resolution (250 m grid cells), HUDI enables comparisons within
and between cities, tracks progress over time, and can be
updated as better data becomes available. Our findings show
that large metropolitan cities in Europe generally do well in
urban design and sustainable transportation but struggle with
environmental quality, particularly air pollution and greenery
(Normalised Difference Vegetation Index). In contrast,
medium-sized and smaller cities do well in environmental
quality but lag in urban design and sustainable transportation,
especially in density, opportunities to walk and cycle, and public
transport access. HUDI serves as a scientific tool to help cities
better understand the links between urban planning, transport,
environment, and health. By use of large-scale, open data with
fine spatial detail, it facilitates urban health and sustainability
comparisons, tracks improvements over time, and highlights
data gaps—encouraging cities to enhance data collection for
more informed and healthier urban planning decisions.
Implications of all the available evidence
We offer HUDI as an open, digital tool and invite cities,
researchers, policymakers, and urban planners to contribute by
sharing open city data, tracking progress over time, and
integrating new indicators and cities worldwide in the future. By
strengthening HUDI, cities can enhance evidence-based decision
making and improve health and sustainability. Although HUDI
provides a valuable starting point for developing urban strategies
and comparing cities, we emphasise the importance of tailoring
solutions to local challenges and context to create effective,
healthy, and equitable urban policies. Our study makes a key
contribution by offering an evidence-based, high-resolution,
policy-relevant index that connects urban design, transportation,
environmental quality, green space access, and health. It
highlights urban strategies such as promoting sustainable
mobility, reducing emissions, and expanding green spaces. The
high spatial resolution of our data allows us to pinpoint within
cities areas of poor urban quality, identifying hotspots where
targeted interventions can improve equity. These findings
underline the need for coordinated efforts to collect consistent,
open, spatial data across European and global cities, enabling
better urban planning and healthier communities.
e512
www.thelancet.com/planetary-health Vol 9 June 2025
Standardisation of indicators and definition of appropriate
implementa­ tion scales remain challenging.
To address these gaps, we developed the Healthy Urban
Design Index (HUDI)—a granular, open-source tool
tailored to European cities of all sizes on the basis of
epidemiological evidence.4,19 By use of open data from
sources such as OpenStreetMap (OSM), Eurostat,
Copernicus, the EU’s Joint Research Centre, and
government datasets, HUDI calculates at high resolution
13 spatial indicators across four key domains: urban
design, sustainable transportation, environmental
quality, and green space accessibility. HUDI is designed
for transparency, adaptability, and intracity and intercity
comparisons, and to integrate evidence into practice.20
Although not a finalised index, HUDI serves as a starting
point for linking urban development with sustainability
and health, promoting open-data use, and guiding
evidence-based policies. The tool is publicly available on
our website, with source code, data, and documentation
on GitHub21 and Zenodo.22
Methods
The HUDI framework was developed collaboratively
with researchers and city representatives, by use of expert
consultation and evidence review. It builds on Mueller
and colleagues’ checklist19 for integrating health into
urban and transport planning. A literature review of
existing indexes helped identify gaps.10–17,23 HUDI
balances scientific rigour with data availability, by use of
grid-scale data for most indicators, except for the
city-wide compactness indicator.
City definition, population, and data collection
We defined city boundaries using the European Urban
Audit 2018,24 covering 917 cities across 26 European
countries. Cities were grouped into five clusters on the
basis of OECD definitions18 and population size, from
large metropolitan cities (≥1·5 million, n=11), metropolitan
cities (500 000–1·5 million, n=53), medium sized cities
(200 000–500 000, n=177), small cities (50 000–200 000,
n=638), to small towns (<50 000, n=38; appendix pp 3–4).
Data were collected at a 250 m grid cell resolution by
use of the Global Human Settlement Layer (GHSL)
dataset,25 refined with Urban Atlas data for residential
areas.26 Population misassignments were corrected on
the basis of density, as in previous studies,27–31 resulting in
808 243 grid cells to analyse. HUDI indicators and scores
were computed both spatially (grid level) to assess local
inequities and at the city level for performance
comparisons.
Indicator calculation
The HUDI covers four key domains: urban design,
sustainable transportation, environmental quality and
green space accessibility. These domains and their
respective indicators have been previously shown to link
to health.19 Indicator selection was based on open data
www.thelancet.com/planetary-health Vol 9 June 2025
HUDI score
Distance to target
City score
Lowest
score
Highest
score
0 3 6 9 10
Poor Moderate
Good Perfect
Health benefits
Figure 1: Example of the rescaling method and range of HUDI scores
availability for the 917 European cities studied. Each
indicator’s data source, computation, and rescaling to a
0–10 scale were defined, with 10 as the best value and
0 the worst (figure 1). Indicator targets were set by means
of epidemiological evidence or expert guidance, such as
25% green or permeable land,19,32–34 optimal dwelling
density of 45–175 dwellings per ha,19 32,35 and WHO air
quality limits.36 Some indicators, such as mid-rise
development, were benchmarked against top-performing
cities in each cluster.
Scores were categorised as poor (0–3), moderate (3–6),
good (6–9), and perfect (10). All indicators were computed
at the 250 m grid resolution before city-level aggregation,
except for the compactness indicator. The table details
sources, indicator targets, and health pathways. Analyses
were done in Python (version 3.9.1, Python Software
Foundation, USA), with some figures in QGIS
(version 3.30.0, Open Source Geospatial Foundation).
City boundaries and city cluster divisions are shown in
the appendix (pp 3–4). Data and indicator analysis are
shown in the index (pp 5–32). Complementary main
analysis results are shown in the appendix (pp 33–57).
Correlation and sensitivity analyses, which ensure
robustness of results, drawing on external datasets,
different assumptions and data inputs, are shown in the
appendix (pp 58–63). The indicator health links are
evidenced in the appendix (pp 64–67).
Domain 1: urban design
The urban design domain highlights the importance of
diverse, mixed land uses, compactness and higher
population density in promoting access to services and
community cohesion.19 This domain score is the average
of standardised scores from the following indicators
(appendix pp 5–12).
Optimal dwelling density—this indicator measures
housing unit compactness, focusing on apartment living.
Optimal dwelling density balances urban functionality,
avoiding both horizontal and vertical sprawl. Studies
suggest an ideal range of 45–175 dwellings per hectare,
with 100 as the optimal target.32,35 Private household data
for EU countries (2022) was sourced from Eurostat,37
with missing data for Norway, England, Switzerland, and
Iceland added manually.38–41 Population data from GHSL25
were used to calculate dwelling density. To compute the
indicator, we divided total population by household size
Articles
For more on OpenStreetMap
see https://www.openstreetmap.
org
For more on HUDI see https://
isglobalranking.org/hudi
See Online for appendix
e513
Articles
Description Data source Target Absolute value description
(before the rescaling)
Urban design
Optimal dwelling density The density of
housing units in
an area
Compactness Horizontal urban
sprawl or
suburban
expansion
2019 GHSL25
and 2022
Eurostat
household data
by country24
45–175 dwellings
per ha (grid and
city levels)
2019 GHSL25 Higher values
indicate better
performance (grid
and city levels)
2012 Local
Climate Zone45,46
Dwelling density (dwellings
per ha), with an optimal
range of 45–175 dwellings
per ha
Points (0–100) reflecting
building density and urban
development; higher scores
indicate greater compactness
Percentage of buildings with
5–6 storeys
Mid-rise development Refers to low-rise
buildings and
urban structures,
typically
5–6 storeys high
Permeability Unpaved,
permeable soil
Higher values
indicate better
performance (grid
and city levels)
2018 European
Environment
Agency47
At least 25% of the
surface should be
impermeable (grid
level)
Percentage of people with
access to the target level of
permeable surfaces
Sustainable transportation
Opportunity to walk Percentage road
network with
pedestrian
infrastructure
Opportunity to cycle Percentage of
road network
with cycling
infrastructure
Public transport stops Number of public
transport stops
2022
OpenStreetMap
data
2022
OpenStreetMap
data
2022
OpenStreetMap
data
70% of road
network with
pedestrian
infrastructure
(city level)
35% of road
network with
cycling
infrastructure
(city level)
At least one bus
stop (grid level)
Percentage road network
with pedestrian
infrastructure
Percentage of road network
with cycling infrastructure
Percentage of the population
with access to a bus stop
within 300 m of home
e514
Rescaling method (reference values in
the new scale max=10, min=0)
Pathways to health
(appendix pp 64–67)
Gaussian interpolation was applied
within the 45–175 dwellings per ha range
on a 6–10 scale, with max=100 dwellings
per ha (score 10);32,35 linear interpolation
was used outside this range, based on
best-in-class and worst-in-class cities
within the city cluster; this method was
applied at both grid and city levels
Computed by use of Lopez et al42
(appendix p 6), with max=100 (score 10,
compact), min=0 (score 0, sprawl);
values were divided by 10 to rescale to
0–10 scale; city- level indicator only
Cluster-based linear interpolation at the
grid level, by use of the highest (score 10)
and lowest (score 0) values within each
city cluster as references; city- level
values were aggregated by use of a
population-weighted average and
linearly rescaled by use of the highest
(score 10) and lowest (score 0) city-level
values within each cluster as reference
Cluster-based linear interpolation at the
grid level, by use of the highest (score 10)
and lowest (score 0) values within each
city cluster as references; a target score of
6 was assigned to 25%;19,32 city- level
values were aggregated as the
percentage of people in grids meeting
the target, then rescaled to 0–10 by
dividing by 10
Cluster-based linear interpolation at the
grid level, by use of the highest (score 10)
and lowest (score 0) values within each
city cluster as references; city- level
values were aggregated by use of
population-weighted averages and
linearly rescaled by use of max=70%
(score 10) and min=0% (score 0) as
references10
Cluster-based linear interpolation at the
grid level, by use of the highest (score 10)
and lowest (score 0) values within each
city cluster as references; city- level
values were aggregated by use of
population-weighted averages and
linearly rescaled by use of max=35%
(score 10) and min=0% (score 0) as
references 10
Cluster-based linear interpolation at the
grid level, by use of max=20 (score 10)
and min=0 (score 0); city-level values
were aggregated by calculating the
percentage of people in grids meeting
the target of one bus stop, then rescaled
to a 0–10 range by dividing by 10
↑ Mobility
(↑ Active transport)
↑ Physical activity
↑ Access to services
↓ Environmental pollution
↓ CO2 emissions per capita
↑ Mobility
(↑ Active transport)
↑ Physical activity
↑ Social cohesion
↑ Access to services
↑ Livability– life satisfaction–
quality of life
↓ Environmental pollution
↓ CO2 emissions per capita
↑ Mobility
(↑ Active transport)
↓ Car dependence
↑ Physical activity
↑ Social cohesion
↑ Access to services
↑ Ecosystem services
(↓ Air pollution, ↓ Noise,
↓ Heat, ↑ Green)
↑ Physical activity
↑ Mobility
(active transport)
↓ Car dependence
↑ Mobility
(↑ Sustainable transport)
↑ Physical activity
↑ Social cohesion– social
capital
↑ Access to services
↓ Environmental pollution
↑ Mobility
(↑ Active transport)
↑ Physical activity
↓ Obesity
↑ Social cohesion
↑ Access to services
↓ Environmental pollution
↑ Mobility
(↑ Active transport)
↑ Physical activity
↓ Obesity
↑ Social cohesion
↑ Access to services
↓ Environmental pollution
(Table continues on next page)
www.thelancet.com/planetary-health Vol 9 June 2025
Articles
Description Data source Target Absolute value description
(before the rescaling)
Rescaling method (reference values in
the new scale max=10, min=0)
Pathways to health
(appendix pp pp 64–67)
(Continued from previous page)
Environmental quality
Air quality (PM2·5) Air quality
indicator refers
to the PM2·5
pollutant
Air quality (NO2) Air quality
indicator refers
to the NO2
pollutant
Surrounding greenness
(NDVI)
Measures the
difference
between visible
(red) and near-
infrared light
reflected by
vegetation
Lower urban heat islands Refers to
phenomenon
where urban
areas are hotter
than surrounding
rural areas
Green spaces accessibility
Universal access to green
spaces
Measures access
to green spaces
of at least 0·5 ha
within 300 m
2015 ELAPSE
and Ensemble
models54,55
2015 ELAPSE
and Global LUR
models54,55
2015 MODIS
Vegetation
Indices
(MOD13Q1)57
5 μg/m³ (grid and
city levels)36
Micrograms per cubic metre
annual mean
Access to large green
spaces
Measures access
to green spaces
of at least 5 ha
within 2 km
2022 Battiston
et al60
Green space of at
least 5 ha within a
2
km walking
distance
grid level)
Percentage of people with
access to a green space of at
least 5 ha within a 2 km
walking distance from home
Cluster-based linear interpolation at the
grid level, by use of max=5 μg/m³
(score 10) and min=highest grid level
concentration (score 0); city- level values
were aggregated by use of population-
weighted averages and linearly rescaled
by use of max=5 μg/m³ (score 10) and
min set to highest city concentration
(score 0)
Cluster-based linear interpolation at the
grid level, by use of max=10 μg/m³
(score 10) and min=highest grid-cell
concentration (score 0); city- level values
were aggregated by use of population-
weighted averages and linearly rescaled
by use of max=10 μg/m³ (score 10) and
min set to highest city concentration
(score 0)
Cluster-based linear interpolation at the
grid level, by use of the highest (score 10)
and lowest (score 0) values as references.
A target score of 6 was assigned to the
city-specific NDVI target derived from
Pereira Barboza et al;28 city-level values
were aggregated as the percentage of
people in grids meeting the target, then
rescaled to a 0–10 range by dividing
by 10
Cluster-based linear interpolation at the
grid level, by use of the highest (score 10)
and the lowest (score 0) values within
each city cluster as references; city-level
values were aggregated by use of a
population-weighted average and
linearly rescaled by use of the highest
(score 10) and lowest (score 0) city-level
values within each cluster as reference
Cluster-based linear interpolation at the
grid level, by use of the highest (score 10)
and the lowest (score 0) values within
each city cluster as references; city-level
values were aggregated as the
percentage of people in grids meeting
the target by Battiston et al, 60 then
rescaled to 0–10 by dividing by 10
Cluster-based linear interpolation at the
grid level, by use of the highest (score 10)
and the lowest (score 0) values within
each city cluster as references; city-level
values were aggregated as the
percentage of people in grids meeting
the target by Battiston et al,61 then
rescaled to 0–10 by dividing by 10
↓ Air pollution
↓ Air pollution
≤10 μg/m³ (grid
and city levels)36
Micrograms per cubic metre
annual mean
Cities’ thresholds as
defined by Pereira
Barboza et al28 (grid
level)
2015
Chakraborty
et al 58
Higher values
indicate better
performance (city
level)
2022 Battiston
et al60
Green space of at
least 0·5 ha within
a 300 m walking
distance
(grid level)
Percentage of people with
access to the target NDVI
value
Points on a scale from
−8 to 7, where higher values
indicate a stronger urban
heat island effect
Percentage of people with
access to a green space of at
least 0·5 ha within a 300 m
walking distance from home.
↑ Physical activity
↑ Restoration
↓ Stress
↑ Health perception
↑ Ecosystem services
(improved air quality, noise
reduction, heat mitigation,
storm water runoff
mitigation, etc)
↓ Heat
↑ Ecosystem services
(Improved air quality, noise
reduction, heat mitigation,
and stormwater runoff
mitigation, etc)
↑ Physical activity
↑ Restoration
↓ Stress
↑ Social cohesion
↑ Livability/ life satisfaction/
quality of life
↑ Ecosystem services
(improved air quality, noise
reduction, heat mitigation,
stormwater runoff
mitigation, etc)
↑ Physical activity
↑ Restoration
↓ Stress
↑ Social cohesion
↑ Livability/ life satisfaction/
quality of life
↑ Ecosystem services
(improved air quality, noise
reduction, heat mitigation,
stormwater runoff
mitigation, etc)
NDVI=Normalised Difference Vegetation Index.
Table: Description of indicators, data sources, target levels, rescaling methods used for indicator computation, absolute values description and pathways to health
www.thelancet.com/planetary-health Vol 9 June 2025
e515
Articles
and city area. Scores (0–10) were assigned by use of
Gaussian interpolation, mapping 45–175 dwellings
per ha to 6–10 (with 100 as 10) and values outside this
range to 0–6. The same method applied at the grid-cell
level (appendix pp 5–6).
Compactness—this indicator measures city compactness,
the inverse of horizontal sprawl, which is
associated with poorer mental health, lower life
satisfaction, and reduced community cohesion.3 Using
the GHSL population data,25 we applied the OECD-EC
definition18 to classify areas. High-density clusters
consist of adjacent 1 km² cells (excluding diagonals) with
at least 1500 inhabitants per km² and a total population
of 50 000 or more. Moderate-density urban clusters
include adjacent 1 km² cells (including diagonals) with
at least 300 inhabitants per km² and a total population of
5000 or more. Areas that do not meet these criteria are
considered rural. Following Lopez and colleagues,42
sprawl (Si) was calculated by subtracting the percentage
of the population in high-density and moderate-density
clusters. Cities within the small towns cluster (with
fewer than 50 000 inhabitants) were assigned a sprawl
value of 100. Compactness (Ci) was then computed as
Ci=100
−
Si, where 100 represents a fully compact city and
0 a fully sprawled city.42 Values were rescaled to a 0–10
range by dividing by 10. Since sprawl and compactness
are city-wide measures, this indicator is not calculated at
the grid-cell level (appendix p 6).
Mid-rise development—this indicator focuses on
low-rise to mid-rise buildings (5–6 storeys), as studies
suggest that they enhance comfort and wellbeing by
maintaining clear sky visibility while preventing vertical
sprawl.3,43,44 To assess mid-rise development, we used the
Local Climate Zone classification by Demuzere and
colleagues,45 which provides a standardised urban form
description.46 Since no specific target exists in the
literature, the indicator was rescaled from 0 to 10 on
the basis of cluster-specific maximum and minimum
values, with higher scores reflecting better performance.
At the city level, it was calculated as a population-
weighted mean of grid values, maintaining the same
rescaling method (appendix pp 7–10).
Permeability—the permeability indicator measures the
land’s ability to absorb water, reducing flooding,
mitigating heat islands, and improving stormwater
management. It is the inverse of imperviousness,
reflecting the extent of built surfaces such as buildings
and pavement. For healthy urban design, at least 25% of
land should remain permeable.19,32 Imperviousness data
from the European Environment Agency geospatial data
catalogue were downloaded at 10-m resolution and
subsequently adapted to our 250-m² grid cells.47 At
grid-cell level, we rescaled the values using a threshold of
25%, corresponding to a score of 6 on the 0–10 scale.
Grid cells exceeding 25% received proportionally higher
scores. At the city level, we established the proportion of
residents living in grid cells with over 25% permeability.
e516
This percentage was then scaled from 0 to 10 by dividing
by 10 (appendix pp 10–12).
Domain 2: sustainable transportation
For a sustainable city, promoting active mobility (walking
and cycling) and public transport is key to reducing
car dependency, improving air and noise pollution, and
encouraging physical activity.19,48,49 Sustainable transportation
was measured by averaging standardised
indicator scores of the following indicators. We
acknowledge that the sustainable transportation data,
based on OSM data, have certain limitations and
potential quality issues, as they lack systematic and
globally consistent updates (appendix pp 12–21).50 The
data were downloaded at 10 m resolution and
subsequently adapted to our 250 m² grid cells. For this
reason, this domain was assigned a lower weight
compared with the other domains in the calculation of
the HUDI.
Opportunity to walk and opportunity to cycle—this
metric quantifies the share of the road network dedicated
to walking and cycling, by use of the most recent 2022
OSM data (appendix pp 12–19). The opportunity-to-walk
and cycle indicators measure walking and cycling
infrastructure as a percentage of the total street network
(appendix pp 16–18) on the basis of definitions from the
Clean Cities Campaign.10 At the grid-cell level, both
indicators were rescaled to a 0–10 scale by use of linear
interpolation, with 0 and 10 representing the minimum
and maximum values within each city cluster. Grid-level
values were aggregated to the city level by use of
population-weighted averages and rescaled similarly,
where 0% equated to a score of 0 and 70% (pedestrian
infrastructure) and 35% (cycling infrastructure),
respectively, to a score of 10, according to Clean Cities
Campaign infrastructure target levels for walking and
cycling.10 City-level scores remained stable across
clusters under different thresholds. Consistent with
Mueller and colleagues,51 our analysis confirmed a
strong correlation between cycling infrastructure and
mode share, reinforcing the indicator’s reliability as a
proxy (appendix p 19).
Public transport stops—This indicator measures access
to bus, metro, tram, and train stops within a city, aligning
with SDG 11.2 for sustainable transport. Public transport
stops 2022 OSM data were used. For optimal access, a
public transport stop should ideally be located within
a 300 m street network distance.3,51,53 Grid cells were
capped at 20 stops (99·5th percentile) and rescaled from
0 to 10 (20 stops). At the city level, we calculated the
percentage of residents in grid cells with at least
one public transport stop (target) and rescaled it to the
0–10 scale (appendix pp 20–21).
Domain 3: environmental quality
The environmental quality domain score was calculated
as the average of standardised scores for air quality
www.thelancet.com/planetary-health Vol 9 June 2025
(PM2·5, NO2), surrounding greenness (Normalised
Difference Vegetation Index [NDVI]), and urban heat
island (UHI).
Air quality: PM2·5 and NO2—we assessed air quality
using PM2·5 and NO2 given their well-established health
effects and links to urban and transport planning (appendix
pp 21–24). Baseline PM2·5 and NO2 concentrations (2015)
were estimated at grid level by use of data from Khomenko
and colleagues.27 PM2·5 values were derived from the
ELAPSE54 and Ensemble models,55, whereas NO2 values
combined ELAPSE with a Global LUR model.56 Threshold
concentrations were set at 5 μg/m³ annual mean for
PM2·5 and 10 μg/m³ annual mean for NO2, in line with
WHO guidance.36 Grid-cell values at the city level were
aggregated by use of a population-weighted average.
Scores were rescaled via linear interpolation, assigning 10
to cities meeting WHO guidance and 0 to the worst-
performing city within the clusters. Grid cells complying
with the WHO air quality guideline (≤ threshold) received
a score of 10; the most polluted cell within the cluster
scored 0.
Surrounding greenness (NDVI)—NDVI measures
vegetation from satellite imagery (appendix pp 24–27).
We used NDVI data from Barboza and colleagues,28
retrieved via MODIS (MOD13Q1) from the US
Geological Survey57 for April–June, 2015, excluding blue
spaces. Following Barboza and colleagues,28 we assessed
NDVI against biome-specific targets. The proportion of
the population in grid cells meeting city-specific NDVI
targets was rescaled to a 0–10 scale. At the grid-cell
level, NDVI values were linearly interpolated, where 0
and 10 represented the lowest and highest observed
values. The city-specific target NDVI values from
Barboza and colleagues,28 served as the threshold,
corresponding to a score of 6 on the scale. This
threshold represents a good NDVI value while allowing
grid cells with higher values to achieve even better
scores.
Lower urban heat islands (LUHI)—The lower urban
heat islands (LUHI) indicator assesses cities’
effectiveness in mitigating heat and is derived as the
inverse of the canopy UHI (CUHI).58 CUHI measures
air temperature differences between urban and
rural areas, capturing interactions between buildings,
vegetation, and the atmosphere to evaluate green
infrastructure, reflective surfaces, and sustainable
design. We used the Simplified Urban Extent algorithm
by Chakraborty and Lee58 to estimate CUHI for the
northern hemisphere summer (June–August, 2015), as it
best reflects potential cooling benefits from urban
greening (appendix pp 27–29). CUHI values were
aggregated at the city level, weighted by population
density, and rescaled to a 0–10 scale by use of linear
interpolation. LUHI was then computed as its inverse,
with grid-cell values similarly rescaled, setting the
highest and lowest cluster values as benchmarks
(scoring 0 and 10, respectively).
www.thelancet.com/planetary-health Vol 9 June 2025
Articles
Domain 4: green space accessibility
Access to green spaces enhances quality of life,
promotes health, and fosters social cohesion.59 Using
Battiston colleagues’ methodology,60 we computed
two indicators of green space accessibility (appendix
pp 29–32). Universal access to green spaces and access
to large green spaces—these indicators measure
walking time to the nearest public green space.
The universal access to green spaces indicator targets a
0·5 ha green space within 300 m of residences;61
the access to large green spaces indicator suggests
a 5 ha green space within 2 km.62 Green space data
were retrieved by use of Battiston and colleagues’
methodology60 with 2022 OSM data at 9-arc resolution
(WGS-84) and fitted into the grid cells. At the grid level,
a logarithmic transformation addressed skewed data
before rescaling, with the best grid scoring 10 and the
lowest 0. At city level, indicators were calculated as the
percentage of people meeting targets for each grids,
then rescaled (0–10) by use of linear interpolation
(0%=0, 100%=10).
Healthy Urban Design Index (HUDI) development
The table details all indicators, data sources, target
levels, rescaling methods, and health pathways
(appendix pp 64–67). A key challenge in composite
indices is aggregating indicators effectively.63 With no
standardised method available, we tested two approaches
for HUDI aggregation. First, we averaged indicators
within each domain, then took an unweighted
mean of the four domain scores. Second, following
Hsu and colleagues,12 we assigned a weight of 0·5 to
the sustainable transportation domain (comprising
opportunities to walk and cycle, and public transport
stops) and 1 to the other three domains, reflecting data
quality concerns. Unlike the other domains and their
indicators, which rely on peer-reviewed or satellite
data, sustainable transportation depends on OSM
crowdsourced data. Although OSM land cover or land
use data (like green space data) are often cross-validated
with satellite imagery, transport-related data (eg, bus
stops, and pedestrian and cycling infrastructures) are
less complete and lack validation, especially in smaller
cities.
To compare weighting methods, we calculated Kendall’s
rank correlation between the final rankings. We adopted
the second approach, considering OSM data limitations in
the sustainable transportation domain. HUDI was
computed at both grid and city levels. City-level values
were averaged from grids, excluding the compactness
indicator. HUDI rankings identified the highest-scoring
and lowest-scoring cities in each cluster. To enhance
clarity for practitioners, we displayed both absolute and
rescaled indicator values. We also included Local
Indicators Spatial Associa­ tions (LISA) plots based on
grid-level Local Moran’s I statistics to highlight HUDI
spatial clusters, helping practitioners identify areas of
e517
Articles
A
Cluster categories
0 750 km
Large metropolitan Metropolitan Medium Small Small towns
Urban design Sustainable transportation
1·79–4·22
4·22–5·30
5·30–5·77
5·77–6·22
6·22–8·35
0·70–3·09
3·09–3·85
3·85–4·28
4·28–4·78
4·78–7·20
Environmental quality Green spaces accessibility
1·68–5·11
5·11–5·64
5·64–6·04
6·04–6·49
6·49–8·11
0·00–4·30
4·30–4·96
4·96–5·48
5·48–6·05
6·05–8·59
Figure 2: Map (A) showing
the mean value for each
domain (urban design,
sustainable transportation,
environmental quality, and
green spaces accessibility) by
city and cluster type (large
metropolitan, metropolitan,
medium, small, and small
towns); ring sizes correspond
to city cluster categories,
with larger rings
representing large
metropolitan cities and
smaller rings indicating
smaller cities. The bar chart
(B) summarises the average
domain values across all
cities within each city cluster
type
B
Domain
Urban design Sustainable transportation Environmental quality Green spaces accessibility
6
5
4
Domains mean value
3
2
1
0
Large metropolitan Metropolitan Medium Small Small towns
e518
www.thelancet.com/planetary-health Vol 9 June 2025
Articles
Optimal dwelling density Compactness Mid-rise development
Indicator value
Indicator value
Indicator value
(rescaled)
(rescaled)
(rescaled)
10
8
6
4
2
0
10
8
6
4
2
0
10
8
6
4
2
0
Large metropolitan
Metropolitan
Medium
Permeability Opportunity to walk
Opportunity to cycle Public transport stops Air quality (PM2·5)
Air quality (NO2) Sorrounding greenness
Lower urban heat islands Universal access
to green spaces
Access to large
green spaces
Small
Small towns
Large metropolitan
Metropolitan
Medium
Small
Small towns
Large metropolitan
Metropolitan
Medium
Small
Small towns
Large metropolitan
Metropolitan
Medium
Small
Small towns
Large metropolitan
Metropolitan
Medium
Small
Small towns
Figure 3: Box plots showing the distribution of rescaled indicator values across the city cluster types
weak and strong HUDI performance. LISA plots highlight
areas where HUDI scores spatially correlate; including
high–high (HH) clusters—high scores surrounded by
high scores, low–Low (LL)—low scores surrounded
by low scores; high–low (HL)—high scores surrounded by
low scores; and low–high (LH)—low scores surrounded
by high scores.
We used population-weighted aggregation for city-level
indicators (opportunity to walk, opportunity to cycle) and
those without specific target levels (mid-rise development,
LUHI). For grid-level targets (surrounding greenness,
permeability, green space accessibility, and public
transport stops), we calculated the proportion of the
population meeting them. A sensitivity analysis tested
alternative thresholds and aggregation models for
permeability, opportunity to walk, opportunity to cycle,
and air quality (PM2.5 and NO2) to assess reliability
(appendix pp 58–62).
Additional analysis
We did additional tests to validate indicators (appendix
pp 58–63). Using Urban Atlas 2012 (0·25 ha)26 and
Corine Land Cover 2012 (25 ha),64 we confirmed city-
level permeability alignment with green space data
(appendix pp 58–60). We also compared air pollution
PM2.5 and NO2 data with AirBase,65 (appendix p 62),
aggregating grid-level data using population-weighted
averages. Strong correlations were found (Spearman:
PM₂.₅=0·73, NO₂=0·62), confirming reliability. Lastly, a
sensitivity analysis tested alternative thresholds for
opportunity to walk and opportunity to cycle, where no
fixed thresholds exist (appendix pp 60–61).
Role of the funding source
The funders of the study had no role in the study design,
data collection, data analysis, data interpretation, or
writing of the report.
Results
Grid-level and city-level results for all 917 European cities,
along with overall HUDI performance, are available on
our website. Figure 2 shows the interplay among
the four key domains of urban design, sustainable
transportation, environmental quality, and green spaces
accessibility and city clusters. Urban design and
sustainable transportation have the highest scores in large
metropolitan areas (mean values around 6 and 5 of 10,
respectively), with scores gradually decreas­ ing towards the
small towns cluster. Sustainable trans­ portation scores are
higher in northern Europe and parts of Spain, and lower
in eastern Europe and southern Italy. Environmental
quality scores are higher in the smaller city clusters,
especially in northern Europe, with a mean of around 6 of
10. Green spaces accessibility scores are consistent across
clusters but slightly decrease in smaller cities. Indicator
patterns can be seen in the appendix (pp 35–38), and the
top and bottom five cities for each indicator by cluster are
highlighted in the appendix (pp 39–42).
For more on HUDI see https://
isglobalranking.org/hudi
www.thelancet.com/planetary-health Vol 9 June 2025
e519
Articles
0 500 1000 km
Cluster
Small towns
Small
Medium
Metropolitan
Large metropolitan
HUDI
2·92–5·00
5·00–5·43
5·43–6·80
Figure 4: Spatial distribution of European cities based on their performance in the HUDI. Cities are categorised into four city clusters—large metropolitan,
metropolitan, medium-sized cities, and small towns—and further classified into HUDI score quintiles. The color coding and varying circle sizes reflect these
classifications, providing a comprehensive overview of the HUDI across Europe
HUDI=Healthy Urban Design Index.
Figure 3 shows boxplots of the indicators across the
five city clusters. In the urban design domain, indicator
scores decrease from large metropolitan areas to small
towns, except permeability, which peaks in medium
and small cities such as Elche (Spain) and Potenza
(Italy), whereas large cities such as Rome score below
3 of 10 (appendix p 39). In the sustainable transportation
domain, large metropolitan cities have less variability
and score higher. The opportunity to cycle indicator
scores high in northern cities such as Helsinki and
Amsterdam, whereas southern cities (eg, Italy, Bulgaria,
and Romania) score low (appendix p 40). In the
environmental quality domain, larger cities score lower
median values (approximately 4), with poor performance
in air quality and UHI, especially in Warsaw, Paris,
and northern Italian cities. Smaller northern cities
(eg, Oulu, Lahti, and Umeå) score higher. Surrounding
Greenness mirrors permeability, with mid-sized
and small cities such as Elche (Spain) and Paredes
(Portugal) scoring highest (appendix p 41). In the
green space accessibility domain, large and medium
cities score the highest median values, particularly
in the universal access to green spaces indicator
(appendix p 42).
Integrating the 13 indicators, the HUDI distribution
across the city clusters shows distinct patterns (appendix
p 46). Large metropolitan cities, with the smallest sample
size (n=11), show the highest variability in HUDI scores,
ranging from 4·11 to 6·04 (SD 0·56), with a mean
of 5·01. Metropolitan cities (n=53) have a slightly higher
HUDI mean (5·10) but lower variability (SD 0·43),
whereas medium cities (n=177) show an even higher
mean (5·25) and lower variability (SD 0·45). Small cities
(n=638) have the highest mean (5·21) and larger
variability (SD 0·53), influenced by a larger sample size.
Small towns (n=38) have the lowest mean (4·63) and
moderate variability (SD 0·50).
The correlation between the 13 indicators and the
combined HUDI is shown in the appendix (p 47). Access
to green spaces has the strongest positive correlation
(0·7–0·6), which indicates that high HUDI scoring cities
often provide good access to green spaces. Public
transport stops and opportunity to walk show moderate
correlations with HUDI scoring (approximately 0·5–0·4).
Air quality correlations vary: PM2·5 has a positive
correlation (0·3), whereas NO2 has a slight negative
correlation with HUDI scoring, suggesting air quality
challenges in high HUDI scoring cities. Permeability
e520
www.thelancet.com/planetary-health Vol 9 June 2025
and surrounding greenness show weak correlations with
HUDI scoring.
The spatial distribution of HUDI scores shows distinct
patterns across European cities (figure 4). Higher HUDI
scoring cities (5·35–6·8) are concentrated in western
Europe, notably in the UK, Spain, and Sweden
(eg, Edinburgh, Pamplona, and Stockholm), across the
different city clusters, although metropolitan cities
generally score higher than smaller cities. In contrast,
eastern European cities, especially in Romania, Bulgaria,
and Poland (eg, Bucharest, Dobrich, and Warsaw),
consistently fall into the lowest HUDI score quintiles
(2·92–4·74), highlighting an east–west HUDI scoring
gradient. Mediterranean cities generally do worse than
northern European cities in the same cluster. Local
HUDI clustering patterns and Local Moran’s I statistics
LISA plots results are further explored in the appendix
(p 49).
Figure 5 provides an example of Paris’ city
performance. In the large metropolitan cluster, Paris
shows balanced performance in urban design (7·5 of 10)
and sustainable transportation (6·3 of 10), but lower
scores in environmental quality (2 of 10) and green
space accessibility (5 of 10). Paris does well for public
transport access (76%) and opportunity to walk (33%),
whereas for opportunity to cycle (6·79%) and air quality
(PM2·5: 15·18 µg/m³, NO2: 43·98 µg/m³) it does weakly.
Paris has a HUDI score of 5·01 of 10, ranking 6th out of
11 in its cluster. Figure 6 shows granular grid level
analysis highlighting strong urban design scores in
central Paris areas, with environmental quality and
green space accessibility scoring higher in Paris’
affluent neighbourhoods, as shown in the HUDI map
and LISA plot, which identifies HH clusters in central
and LL clusters in peripheral areas. One representative
city from each of the remaining city clusters that we
explain hereafter is similarly illustrated in the appendix
(pp 50–57).
In the metropolitan city cluster (appendix pp 50–51),
Palermo (Italy) does well in urban design (6·4 of 10),
especially in mid-rise development and compactness, but
scores low in permeability (26%). Sustainable
transportation indicators score low (2·8 of 10), whereas
environmental quality and green space accessibility score
moderately (4 of 10). With a HUDI score of 4·7 of 10,
Palermo ranks 37th out of 53 cities. Granular grid level
analysis shows higher HUDI scores in peripheral areas,
except for sustainable transportation, which scores
higher in centric areas. The HUDI and LISA plots
highlight HH clusters in peripheral areas and LL clusters
in central neighbourhoods.
In the medium-sized city cluster (appendix pp 52–53),
Espoo (Finland) excels in environmental quality and
sustain­ able transportation (average score 7 of 10), with
PM2·5 averaging 7·5 µg/m³ and high scores for
opportunities to walk and cycle (30%). However, urban
design scores lag (3·6 of 10), particularly in compactness
www.thelancet.com/planetary-health Vol 9 June 2025
Articles
Analysis for Paris
Permeability
Opportunity to walk
Opportunity to cycle
Mid-rise development
Compactness
Public transport
stops
Air quality
(PM2·5)
Air quality (NO2)
Optimal dwelling density
Access to large green spaces
Indicators
HUDI: 5·01/10
Rank: 6·0/11
Urban design
Sustainable transportation
Environmental quality
Green spaces accessibility
Optimal dwelling density
(dwellings per ha)
Compactness
(number)
Mid-rise development
(%)
Permeability
(%)
Opportunity to walk
(%)
Opportunity to cycle
(%)
Public transport stops
(%)
Air quality (PM2·5)
(um/m3)
Air quality (NO2)
(um/m3)
Surrounding greenness
(%)
Lower urban heath islands
(number)
Universal access to green spaces
(%)
Access to large green spaces
(%)
Universal access to green spaces
Surrounding
greenness
Lower urban
heath islands
0 20 40 60 80 100
Values
Figure 5: HUDI and indicator values for the city of Paris, classified within the large metropolitan cluster
The spider plot displays rescaled indicator values, ranging from 0 at the centre to 10 at the outer edge, with greater
radial extensions indicating stronger HUDI performance. An ideal city would score 10 on all indicators, resulting in
a fully filled radial plot. Adjacent to the spider plot, a bar chart displays the absolute indicator values before
rescaling to the 0–10 scale (see table for definitions of these absolute values). HUDI=Healthy Urban Design Index.
(29 of 100). With a combined HUDI score of 5·38 of 10,
Espoo ranks 47th of 177 cities in its cluster. Granular grid
cell analysis shows that environmental quality scores
high in most areas, although central areas show moderate
scores. Urban design scores higher in the southern
areas, where environmental quality scores lower. The
LISA plot highlights well-performing clusters (HH),
where green accessibility and urban design also score
high.
In the small city cluster (appendix pp 54–55),
Pamplona (Spain) does well across all four domains,
with a HUDI score of 6·8 of 10, ranking first of
638 cities. Pamplona excels in urban design (8·4 of 10)
and scores around 6 of 10 in other domains. The urban
design indicators score well, except permeability (41%).
e521
Articles
For more on HUDI see https://
isglobalranking.org/hudi
e522
Urban design Sustainable transportation Environmental quality
3·62–5·09
5·09–5·12
5·12–5·24
5·24–7·97
0·00–2·30
2·30–3·26
3·26–4·16
4·16–9·22
1·86–3·12
3·12–3·26
3·26–3·40
3·40–3·99
Green spaces accessibility Healthy Urban Design Index Local Moran's I clusters
0·00–2·81
2·81–3·57
3·57–4·09
4·09–5·76
2·49–3·63
3·63–3·87
3·87–4·09
4·09–5·26
High–high
High–low
Low–high
Low–low
ns
Figure 6: Grid level visualisation of Paris, which highlights the spatial distribution of HUDI domains and overall HUDI at a 250 m resolution, revealing detailed
spatial patterns across the city
A Local Moran’s I LISA plot further identifies spatial clustering, classifying areas as high–high (high HUDI values surrounded by high values), low-low, high-low, or
low-high, offering insights into local spatial associations. A comprehensive overview of the HUDI performance of all cities is available on the authors’ website.
HUDI=Healthy Urban Design Index. LISA=Local Indicators of Spatial Association.
Opportunity to walk (51%) scores high and LUHI scores
low (0·12 of 10). However, opportunity to cycle scores
low (6%). Granular grid level analysis for Pamplona
shows that environmental quality and urban design
indicators have similar HUDI score patterns, with
central-western areas doing best in green space
accessibility (60%). The HUDI map highlights
high-performing clusters in the central and western
areas of Pamplona, whereas the LISA plot identifies
HH clusters in the southern and northern areas, and
the eastern areas struggling with green accessibility.
In the small towns cluster (appendix pp 56–57),
Limerick (Ireland) scores 5·1 of 10 for the combined
HUDI, ranking 6th of 38 cities in its cluster. Limerick
excels in green space accessibility (6 of 10) and
Environmental quality (7 of 10), with low PM2·5 (7·1 µg/m³)
and NO2 (14·6 µg/m³) concentrations and a low LUHI
score (0·13 of 10). However, Limerick struggles with
sustainable transportation (2·4 of 10) and urban design
(3 of 10). Granular grid level analysis shows that
environmental quality is highest in the northern
and eastern areas, whereas green space accessibility
peaks in central neighbourhoods. The LISA plot shows
HH clusters in the southern and eastern areas, with
LL clusters in peripheral neighbourhoods.
We present additional analyses to strengthen our results
in the appendix (pp 58–63). We compared the two HUDI
weighting methods, with Kendall’s correlation consistently
high (0·77 to 0·89) across all clusters, especially in large
metropolitan cities. All p values were less than 0·0001,
indicating similar results between the two methods.
We also did a sensitivity analysis on the permeability
indicator using alternative datasets,26,64 closely aligned with
the original permeability indicator (appendix pp 58–60).
This analysis reveals a strong positive correlation between
permeability and green space data (Spearman ρ=0·68;
appendix pp 58–60), confirming the robustness of our
permeability indicator. The grid-level analysis revealed
consistent patterns across the city clusters, validating the
overlap between both indicators regardless of data input
source (appendix pp 58–60).
Finally, we assessed how scores varied across clusters
with different target thresholds for opportunity to walk
(50%, 60%, and 70%) and cycle (15%, 25%, and 35%;
appendix pp 60–61). Large cities showed stable scores,
whereas smaller cities displayed more variability.
Higher thresholds better identified cities with advanced
pedestrian and cyclist infrastructure, whereas lower
ones offered a more detailed view of current active
mobility conditions. Results (appendix p 61) indicate
that cycling infrastructure developments lag behind
pedestrian infrastructure developments in meeting
policy targets.
Discussion
The HUDI framework assesses urban health and
sustainability across 917 European cities, from large
metropolitan cities to small towns. Developed through
research and expert input, HUDI provides granular
grid-cell and city-level indicators, helping policy makers
to analyse urban design, transport, environment, and
health interconnections, drawing exclusively on open
data. HUDI aids in identifying hotspots for intervention
and shaping effective strategies. It connects urban
design, transport, environment, and green space to
health by addressing upstream determinants of pollution,
heat, stress, physical activity, restoration, social cohesion
and wellbeing.4,19,66 Its open data framework enables cities
www.thelancet.com/planetary-health Vol 9 June 2025
to refine and expand insights for better urban planning
and management.
Our findings highlight how city size and geography
shape HUDI performance. Large metropolitan cities,
especially in Northern Europe and parts of Spain, score
higher in urban design and sustainable transportation
domains. Smaller cities, particularly in Northern Europe,
excel in environmental quality, with better air quality and
lower LUHI effects. Green space accessibility, however,
declines in smaller cities, probably because of poor
accessibility via walking or cycling routes despite high
surrounding greenness. No city scored more than 6·8 on
HUDI, indicating room for improvement across Europe.
A clear east–west gradient persists, with western cities—
especially in the UK, Spain, and Sweden—ranking
highest (5·35–6·80), whereas eastern cities, notably in
Romania, Bulgaria, and Poland, score low (2·92–4·74).
Even top-performing cities (ie, Stockholm, Pamplona,
and Amsterdam) show intra-city variability, underscoring
the value of high-resolution data for addressing urban
equity. These findings emphasise the role of city size and
consideration of local city context in shaping urban
design, transport, environment, and health outcomes.
HUDI is a dynamic tool, not a fixed ranking, offering
cities open-data insights on urban health. By clustering
cities by size, it enables comparisons, knowledge, and
best practice sharing. Combined with local city data
and the grid-cell level granular insights, it helps policy
makers to identify priorities and integrate improve­ ments
into urban planning and management. Below, we outline
recommendations for healthier, more sustainable cities.
The correlation between HUDI and its indicators
(appendix p 43) highlights the need to balance urban
development with environmental quality. HUDI helps
identify targeted strategies for improvement. In urban
design, cities can enhance health and sustainability by
promoting mid-rise (5–6 storey) developments,35,44
smaller block sizes and increased connectivity,67 and
mixed-use zoning with permeable surfaces.32 Sustainable
transportation can be improved through complete streets
with protected bike lanes and well-connected pedestrian
networks,19 low-traffic neighbourhoods, traffic calming
and tactical transport planning,68,69 and accessible and
quality public and active transport. 19 Environmental
quality can benefit from low emission zones,69 congestion
charging, green walls, urban heat sensors, cool roofs,
and green corridors with native species.31,73 To improve
green space accessibility, cities can convert vacant lots
into pocket parks, connect green areas via corridors and
create linear parks,70,71 and implement green space impact
fees and maintenance programmes,73 ensuring equitable,
active mobility-friendly accessibility.
The strength of this study lies in its extensive data
analysis, integrating open data and open-source methods
to assess urban design, sustainable transportation,
environmental quality, and green space accessibility
across 917 European cities of all sizes at a high spatial
www.thelancet.com/planetary-health Vol 9 June 2025
Articles
resolution. This approach enables detailed intracity and
intercity comparisons, supports replication and
long-term monitoring, and allows cities to adapt HUDI
to their contexts by integrating local data. Rather than
definitely ranking cities, HUDI provides insights for
benchmarking progress toward health and sustainability.
By refining local indicators and considering specific
challenges and context, cities can develop tailored
interventions. Although it is designed for Europe,
HUDI’s framework can be adapted to other cities
worldwide with adjusted threshold levels.
Despite its strengths, HUDI has limitations. A key
challenge is the variability in data quality and availability
across cities, particularly from open sources such
as OSM. As a user-generated dataset, OSM lacks
standardised protocols, affecting data accuracy and
coverage. Consequently, we avoided using OSM for
health-related points of interest such as access to food
markets or hospitals in this first HUDI version. However,
OSM data on land use (eg, green space), roads, and
public transport is more reliable and was used for the
sustainable transportation indicators, although we
assigned them a lower weight (0·5) in the HUDI
construct to account for data uncertainty. Additionally,
owing to data limitations, we excluded other important
urban health indicators such as socioeconomic factors,
transportation modal share, CO2 emissions, environmental
noise, and other social and health-related data,
which were often not available or spatially distributed.
Several methodological considerations need to be
addressed. First, HUDI uses thresholds for 13 indicators,
although the strength of epidemiological evidence varies.
Some indicators, such as PM2·5 and NO2, have robust,
evidence-based WHO-led thresholds,38 whereas others,
such as opportunity to walk and cycle, need further
evidence support. Establishment of optimal thresholds
for urban design indicators is less straightforward. For
example, compactness and mid-rise development
thresholds were set by analysing top and bottom-
performing cities within each cluster. For opportunity to
walk and cycle, we adopted more ambitious policy
targets. Indicators such as optimal dwelling density,
permeability, and surrounding greenness rely on
established thresholds with epidemiological backing.
However, some of these indicators would benefit from
clearer guidance on the appropriate spatial scale—city,
neighbourhood, or grid cell level.
Despite its limitations, this work offers great value
and novelty. HUDI is a first attempt to systematically
organise health-relevant urban development indicators
by use of open, large-scale city data for almost
1000 European cities of different sizes at high resolution.
By consolidating threshold values, we provide a clearer
framework for their application and interpretation,
bridging fragmented data sources and helping urban
planners, policy makers, and researchers to identify
benchmarks for healthier, more sustainable cities.
e523
Articles
For more on map data see
https://www.openstreetmap.org
Further research is needed to refine HUDI and
integrate additional indicators excluded owing to data
limitations. A key value of HUDI is its ability to highlight
data gaps and encourage cities to improve data collection
and access. We envision continued development of
HUDI as better open, spatial datasets become available,
allowing for the inclusion of more urban health and
sustainability indicators. We urge the research
community and urban sectors to support these efforts,
making data, code and documentation accessible on
GitHub21 and Zenodo22 to improve HUDI and use it as a
tool for tracking cities’ urban health progress.
By making HUDI widely accessible, we aim to promote
its use, encourage better open-data practices, and
strengthen local stakeholders’ capacity to support
evidence-based and equitable urban health policies. We
hope local governments will use and adapt HUDI to set
tailored targets and guidelines, especially for smaller
cities for which evidence is lacking, helping to foster
healthier, more sustainable urban planning and
providing a solid framework for monitoring progress.
We call for urgent action to build healthy, sustainable
cities for all by improving how we measure and guide
urban development. We urge the UN, WHO, and EU to
provide city-size-specific guidance and thresholds, and
governments at all levels to collect open data, address data
gaps, and allocate resources to improve data quality. These
steps will promote inclusive, data-driven urban policies
that enhance health and sustainability for all city residents.
Contributors
FM and MN conceptualised the study idea. FM worked on the study
design. MC worked on data collection. FM did the data analysis.
FM, NM, SK, EPB, TI, AB, CD, and MN contributed to data
interpretation and selection of indicators. AB and RS provided the green
spaces accessibility data. KdH contributed to developing the ELAPSE
models and provided input on air pollution exposure estimations.
TCC calculated the canopy urban heat island intensity. FM wrote the
manuscript. FM, TI, SK, EPB, and MC accessed and verified the data.
All authors reviewed the manuscript and provided feedback on the study
design, data analysis, and interpretation of results. FM, NM, and CD
revised the manuscript after extensive reviewer comments. NM finalised
the revisions and did final editing. All authors were responsible for the
decision to submit the manuscript for publication.
Declaration of interests
We declare no competing interests.
Data sharing
All collected data are routinely gathered and contain no personal
information. The data, code, and documentation are fully accessible
and easily adaptable for use with local datasets through our GitHub21 and
Zenodo22 repositories. Map data copyrighted by OpenStreetMap
contributors are available.
Acknowledgments
We acknowledge support from the grant CEX2023-0001290-S funded by
MCIN/AEI/10.13039/501100011033, and support from the Generalitat
de Catalunya through the Centres de Recerca de Catalunya programme.
Additional support was provided by the Centro de Investigación
Biomédica en Red for Epidemiology and Public Health and the Urban
Burden of Disease Estimation for Policy Making Horizon Europe project
(2023–26, grant 101094639). TCC’s contribution was funded by the US
Department of Energy (DOE), Office of Science, Biological and
Environmental Research programme through an Early Career Award.
The Pacific Northwest National Laboratory operates under DOE contract
e524
DE-AC05-76RL01830 via Battelle Memorial Institute. The University of
Turin, Computer Science Department, supported AB’s and RS’s
contributions.
Editorial note
The Lancet Group takes a neutral position with respect to territorial
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
References
1 UN. World urbanization prospects 2018. Department of Economic
and Social Affairs. World Population Prospects 2018: 1–30. https://
population.un.org/wup/assets/WUP2018-Report.pdf (accessed
Aug 7, 2024).
2 Bettencourt LM, Lobo J, Helbing D, Kühnert C, West GB. Growth,
innovation, scaling, and the pace of life in cities.
Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2007; 104: 7301–06.
3 Giles-Corti B, Vernez-Moudon A, Reis R, et al. City planning and
population health: a global challenge. Lancet 2016; 388: 2912–24.
4 Nieuwenhuijsen M, Khreis H. Urban and transport planning,
environment and health. In: Nieuwenhuijsen M, Khreis H, eds.
Integrating human health into urban and transport planning.
Springer International Publishing, 2019: 3–16.
5 UNDP. Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities. 2015. https://
www.undp.org/sustainable-development-goals/sustainable-cities-
and-communities (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
6 UN. 71/256. New urban agenda. Quito, Ecuador. 2017. http://
habitat3.org/wp-content/uploads/New-Urban-Agenda-GA-Adopted-
68th-Plenary-N1646655-E.pdf (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
7 European Commission. Green city accord. 2020. https://
environment.ec.europa.eu/topics/urban-environment/green-city-
accord_en (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
8 European Commission. European green capital and green leaf
award. https://environment.ec.europa.eu/topics/urban-
environment/european-green-capital-award_en (accessed
Aug 7, 2024).
9 European Commission. EU mission: climate-neutral and smart
cities. https://research-and-innovation.ec.europa.eu/funding/
funding-opportunities/funding-programmes-and-open-calls/
horizon-europe/eu-missions-horizon-europe/climate-neutral-and-
smart-cities_en (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
10 Virdo J, Pittman J, Bost J, et al. Pan-European city rating and
ranking on urban mobility for liveable cities: final report. Ricardo
Energy & Environment, 2022: 5. https://cleancitiescampaign.org/
wp-content/uploads/2022/02/Technical-report-Clean-Cities-City-
Rating-and-Ranking.pdf (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
11 Higgs C, Badland H, Simons K, Knibbs LD, Giles-Corti B.
The Urban Liveability Index: developing a policy-relevant urban
liveability composite measure and evaluating associations with
transport mode choice. Int J Health Geogr 2019; 18: 14.
12 Hsu A, Chakraborty T, Thomas R, et al. Measuring what matters,
where it matters: a spatially explicit urban environment and social
inclusion index for the Sustainable Development Goals.
Front Sustain Cities 2020; 2: 556484.
13 Dalla Lana School of Public Health. HealthyPlan.City. https://
healthyplan.city/en (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
14 University of California, Los Angeles. National Neighborhood
Equity Index. https://healthychild.ucla.edu/programs/data-
informed-futures/measures/national-neighborhood-equity-index-
nnei (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
15 Economist Intelligence Unit. Global Livability Index 2024. 2024.
https://www.eiu.com/n/campaigns/global-liveability-index-2024/
(accessed Aug 7, 2024).
16 UNDP. Human Development Index. https://hdr.undp.org/data-
center/human-development-index#/indicies/HDI (accessed
Aug 7, 2024).
17 Boeing G, Higgs C, Liu S, et al. Using open data and open-source
software to develop spatial indicators of urban design and transport
features for achieving healthy and sustainable cities.
Lancet Glob Health 2022; 10: e907–18.
18 Dijkstra L, Poelman H. Cities in Europe: the new OECD-EC
definition, 01/2012. Regional and Urban Policy, 2012.
19 Mueller N, Daher C, Rojas-Rueda D, et al. Integrating health
indicators into urban and transport planning: a narrative literature
review and participatory process. Int J Hyg Environ Health 2021;
235: 113772.
www.thelancet.com/planetary-health Vol 9 June 2025
20 Lowe M, Whitzman C, Badland H, et al. Planning healthy, liveable
and sustainable cities: how can indicators inform policy?
Urban Policy Res 2015; 33: 131–44.
21 Montana F. GitHub repository: Healthy-Urban-Design-Index. Source
code and HUDI documentation. 2025. https://github.com/federic
amontana/Healthy-Urban-Design-Index (accessed May 28, 2025).
22 Montana F. Zenodo repository: Building a Healthy Urban Design
Index (HUDI): how to promote health and sustainability in
European cities. 2025. https://doi: 10.5281/zenodo.15187648
(accessed May 28, 2025).
23 Villanueva K, Badland H, Hooper P, et al. Developing indicators of
public open space to promote health and wellbeing in communities.
Appl Geogr 2015; 57: 112–19.
24 Eurostat. Urban audit. 2018. https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/
gisco/geodata/statistical-units/urban-audit (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
25 European Commission. Global human settlement. 2019. https://
ghsl.jrc.ec.europa.eu/data.php (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
26 Copernicus. Urban atlas. 2012. https://land.copernicus.eu/en/
products/urban-atlas/urban-atlas-2012 (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
27 Khomenko S, Cirach M, Pereira-Barboza E, et al. Premature
mortality due to air pollution in European cities: a health impact
assessment. Lancet Planet Health 2021; 5: e121–34.
28 Pereira Barboza E, Cirach M, Khomenko S, et al. Green space and
mortality in European cities: a health impact assessment study.
Lancet Planet Health 2021; 5: e718–30.
29 Iungman T, Khomenko S, Barboza EP, et al. The impact of urban
configuration types on urban heat islands, air pollution, CO2
emissions, and mortality in Europe: a data science approach.
Lancet Planet Health 2024; 8: e489–505.
30 Khomenko S, Cirach M, Barrera-Gómez J, et al. Impact of road
traffic noise on annoyance and preventable mortality in European
cities: a health impact assessment. Environ Int 2022; 162: 107160.
31 Khomenko S, Pisoni E, Thunis P, et al. Spatial and sector-specific
contributions of emissions to ambient air pollution and mortality in
European cities: a health impact assessment. Lancet Public Health
2023; 8: e546–58.
32 Barcelona Urban Ecology Agency. Charter for designing new urban
developments and regenerating existing ones. Barcelona, 2018.
https://charterbcnecologia.wordpress.com/wp-content/
uploads/2018/05/charter-for-designing-new-urban-developments_
may20181.pdf (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
33 Mueller N, Rojas-Rueda D, Khreis H, et al. Socioeconomic
inequalities in urban and transport planning related exposures and
mortality: a health impact assessment study for Bradford, UK.
Environ Int 2018; 121: 931–41.
34 Khomenko S, Nieuwenhuijsen M, Ambròs A, Wegener S, Mueller N.
Is a liveable city a healthy city? Health impacts of urban and
transport planning in Vienna, Austria. Environ Res 2020; 183: 109238.
35 Udell T, Daley M, Johnson B, Tolley R. Does density matter? The
role of density in creating walkable neighbourhoods: discussion
paper. National Heart Foundation of Australia. 2014. https://irp.cdn-
website.com/541aa469/files/uploaded/Discussion_paper_Does_
density_matter-the_role_of_density_in_creating_walkable_
neighbourhoods.pdf (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
36 WHO. WHO global air quality guidelines: particulate matter (PM2·5
and PM10), ozone, nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide and carbon
monoxide. 2021; 1–360. https://www.who.int/publications/i/
item/9789240034228/ (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
37 Eurostat. Household composition statistics. 2022. https://ec.europa.
eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php?title=Household_
composition_statistics (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
38 Michael Bauer Research. Average household size in Norway in
2023, by Country, Region, County, Subregion, and Municipality.
2023. https://www.arcgis.com/home/item.html?id=d27ce84a33b54c
2c8a32cb9147fc0fa8# (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
39 Office for National Statistics. Families and households in
the UK: 2022. Data and analysis from Census 2021. 2023. https://
www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/birthsdeathsand
marriages/families/bulletins/familiesandhouseholds/2022 (accessed
Aug 7, 2024).
40 Federal Statistics Office Switzerland. Households and living
arrangements. 2023. https://www.bfs.admin.ch/bfs/en/home/
statistics/population/families/households.html (accessed
Aug 7, 2024).
www.thelancet.com/planetary-health Vol 9 June 2025
Articles
41 Michael Bauer Research. Iceland average household size. Average
household size in Iceland in 2022, by Country, Region, and
Municipality. 2023. https://www.arcgis.com/home/item.html?id=6c
2c291bdb604be1b087e7002f9821cf# (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
42 Lopez R, Hynes HP. Sprawl in the 1990s: measurement,
distribution, and trends. Urban Aff Rev 2003; 38: 325–55.
43 Giles-Corti B, Ryan K, Foster S. Increasing density in Australia:
maximising the health benefits and minimising harm. 2012.
https://apo.org.au/sites/default/files/resource-files/2012-03/apo-
nid329389.pdf (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
44 Crowhurst Lennard SH. Livable cities: concepts and role in improving
health. In: Nieuwenhuijsen MJ, Khreis H, eds. Integrating human
health into urban and transport planning. Springer, 2018: 51–71.
45 Demuzere M, Bechtel B, Middel A, Mills G. Mapping Europe into
local climate zones. PLoS One 2019; 14: e0214474.
46 Stewart ID, Oke TR. Local climate zones for urban temperature
studies. Bull Am Meteorol Soc 2012; 93: 1879–900.
47 European Environment Agency. Imperviousness density 2018
(raster 10 m), Europe, 3-yearly, Aug. 2020. EEA geospatial data
catalogue. 2020. https://sdi.eea.europa.eu/catalogue/copernicus/
api/records/3bf542bd-eebd-4d73-b53c-a0243f2ed862?language=all
(accessed Aug 7, 2024).
48 Mueller N, Rojas-Rueda D, Cole-Hunter T, et al. Health impact
assessment of active transportation: a systematic review. Prev Med
2015; 76: 103–14.
49 Sallis JF, Spoon C, Cavill N, et al. Co-benefits of designing
communities for active living: an exploration of literature.
Int J Behav Nutr Phys Act 2015; 12: 30.
50 Biljecki F, Chow YS, Lee K. Quality of crowdsourced geospatial
building information: a global assessment of OpenStreetMap
attributes. Build Environ 2023; 237: 110295.
51 Mueller N, Rojas-Rueda D, Salmon M, et al, and the PASTA
consortium. Health impact assessment of cycling network
expansions in European cities. Prev Med 2018; 109: 62–70.
52 Djurhuus S, Hansen HS, Aadahl M, Glümer C. The association
between access to public transportation and self-reported active
commuting. Int J Environ Res Public Health 2014; 11: 12632–51.
53 Arundel J, Lowe M, Hooper P, et al. Creating liveable cities in
Australia. Mapping urban policy implementation and evidence-based
national liveability indicators. 2017. Centre for Urban Research.
54 de Hoogh K, Chen J, Gulliver J, et al. Spatial PM2.5, NO2, O3 and
BC models for Western Europe—evaluation of spatiotemporal
stability. Environ Int 2018; 120: 81–92.
55 Copernicus. Air quality in Europe: ensemble modelling. 2019. https://
www.regional.atmosphere.copernicus.eu/ (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
56 Larkin A, Geddes JA, Martin RV, et al. Global land use regression
model for nitrogen dioxide air pollution. Environ Sci Technol 2017;
51: 6957–64.
57 Didan K. MOD13Q1 MODIS/Terra Vegetation Indices 16-Day
L3 Global 250 m SIN Grid V006. NASA EOSDIS Land Processes
DAAC. 2015. https://ladsweb.modaps.eosdis.nasa.gov/missions-
and-measurements/products/MOD13Q1 (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
58 Chakraborty T, Lee X. A simplified urban-extent algorithm to
characterize surface urban heat islands on a global scale and
examine vegetation control on their spatiotemporal variability.
Int J Appl Earth Obs Geoinf 2019; 74: 269–80.
59 Nieuwenhuijsen MJ, Khreis H, Triguero-Mas M, Gascon M,
Dadvand P. Fifty shades of green: pathway to healthy urban living.
Epidemiology 2017; 28: 63–71.
60 Battiston A, Schifanella R. On the need for a multi-dimensional
framework to measure accessibility to urban green.
NPJ Urban Sustain 2024; 4: 10.
61 WHO. Urban green spaces and health: a review of evidence. 2016.
https://iris.who.int/bitstream/handle/10665/345751/WHO-EURO-
2016-3352-43111-60341-eng.pdf?sequence=3 (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
62 Hooper P, Boruff B, Beesley B, Badland H, Giles-Corti B. Testing
spatial measures of public open space planning standards with
walking and physical activity health outcomes: findings from the
Australian National Liveability Study. Landsc Urban Plan 2016;
2018: 57–67.
63 de Muro P, Mazziotta M, Pareto A. Composite indices of development
and poverty: an application to MDGs. Soc Indic Res 2011; 104: 1–18.
64 Copernicus. Corine Land Cover. 2012. https://land.copernicus.eu/
en/products/corine-land-cover/clc-2012 (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
e525
Articles
65 European Environment Agency. Air quality e-reporting
(AQ e-Reporting). e-Reporting: assessment methods meta-data
reported by countries (data flow D). 2022. https://www.eea.europa.
eu/en/datahub/datahubitem-view/3b390c9c-f321-490a-b25a-
ae93b2ed80c1?activeAccordion= (accessed Aug 7, 2024).
66 Nieuwenhuijsen MJ. Urban and transport planning pathways to
carbon neutral, liveable and healthy cities; a review of the current
evidence. Environ Int 2020; 140: 105661.
67 Forsyth A, Hearst M, Oakes JM, Schmitz KH. Design and
destinations: factors influencing walking and total physical activity.
Urban Stud 2008; 45: 1973–96.
68 Mueller N, Rojas-Rueda D, Khreis H, et al. Changing the urban
design of cities for health: the superblock model. Environ Int 2020;
134: 105132.
69 Ramos Valásquez A, Guevara M, Armengol JM, et al. Health impact
assessment of urban and transport developments in Barcelona:
a case study. Health Place 2025; 91: 103406.
70 Vidal Yañez D, Pereira Barboza E, Cirach M, Daher C,
Nieuwenhuijsen M, Mueller N. An urban green space
intervention with benefits for mental health: a health impact
assessment of the Barcelona “Eixos Verds” Plan. Environ Int 2023;
174: 107880.
71 Opbroek J, Pereira Barboza E, Nieuwenhuijsen M, Dadvand P,
Mueller N. Urban green spaces and behavioral and cognitive
development in children: a health impact assessment of the
Barcelona “Eixos Verds” Plan (Green Axis Plan). Environ Res 2024;
244: 117909.
72 Pereira Barboza E, Montana F, Cirach M, et al. Environmental
health impacts and inequalities in green space and air pollution in
six medium-sized European cities. Environ Res 2023; 237: 116891.
e526
www.thelancet.com/planetary-health Vol 9 June 2025